README.md, before:

Fiona-Rasterio-Shapely Cheat Sheet
==================================

A cheat sheet for Fiona/Rasterio/Shapely command-line geodata tools, with apologies to [@dwtkns](https://github.com/dwtkns/gdal-cheat-sheet). Suggestions welcome!

See https://github.com/Toblerity/Fiona/blob/master/docs/cli.rst or `fio --help` and 
https://github.com/mapbox/rasterio/blob/master/docs/cli.rst or `rio --help` for more about Fiona and Rasterio commands.

Vector operations
---

#### Get Fiona version

New in 1.4.3

	fio --version

#### Enumerate format drivers

New in 1.4.3

	fio env --formats

#### Get vector information

	fio info input.shp

#### Print vector format

	fio info input.shp --format

#### Print vector extent

	fio info input.shp --bounds

#### Print vector coordinate reference system

	fio info input.shp --crs
	
#### Print count of features

	fio info input.shp --count

#### Convert vectors to GeoJSON

With coordinate reference system transformation and rounding of numbers to a constant precision.

	fio cat input.shp --dst_crs EPSG:4326 \
	| fio collect --precision 6 > output.json

#### Convert between vector formats

	fio cat input.shp | fio load --format Shapefile output.shp

#### Print count of features with attributes matching a given pattern

Using grep.

	fio cat input.shp | grep -c "pattern"

Using [jq](http://stedolan.github.io/jq/).

	fio cat input.shp | jq '.properties.my_prop=="pattern"' | grep -c "true"

#### Select features by long/lat bounding box

	fio cat input.shp --bbox "$WEST,$SOUTH,$EAST,$NORTH"

#### Select features by bounds of another dataset

	$ fio cat input.shp --bbox "`fio info other.shp --bounds | tr ' ' ','`"

#### Reproject vector

	fio cat input.shp --dst_crs EPSG:4326 \
	| fio load --format Shapefile --dst_crs EPSG:4326 output.shp
	
#### Merge features in a vector file by attribute ("dissolve")

  	TODO

#### Merge vector files

  	fio cat *.shp | fio load --format Shapefile merged.shp

#### Merge vector files (to GeoJSON)

  	fio cat *.shp | fio collect > merged.json

#### Filter a vector file

Using jq for filtering and 
[geojsonio-cli](https://github.com/mapbox/geojsonio-cli) for display of results.

	fio cat input.shp \
	| jq 'select(.id=="10")' -c \
	| fio collect \
	| geojsonio

#### Filter a vector file in parallel

Using GNU Parallel

	fio cat input.shp \
	| parallel --pipe "jq -c 'select(.id==\"10\")'" \
	| fio collect \
	| geojsonio

#### Subset & filter all shapefiles in a directory

  	TODO

Raster operations
---

#### Get Rasterio version

New in 0.15

	rio --version

#### Enumerate format drivers

New in 0.15

	rio env --formats

#### Get raster information

As JSON – no more scraping the output of gdalinfo!

	rio info input.tif

#### Print raster format (not JSON)

	rio info input.tif --format

#### Print raster extent

	rio info input.tif --bounds

#### Print raster coordinate reference system

	rio info input.tif --crs
	
#### Print count of raster bands

	rio info input.tif --count

#### Get raster extent as GeoJSON

And pipe to geojsonio-cli:

	rio bounds input.tif | geojsonio

#### Concatenate or stack datasets together

New in 0.15.

	rio stack r.tif g.tif b.tif -o rgb.tif

#### Extract vectors from raster band as GeoJSON

	rio shapes input.tif --bidx 1 > output.json

#### Extract data/nodata vectors from raster as GeoJSON

	rio shapes input.tif --mask > output.json
	
#### Burn vector into raster

[rio-rasterize](https://github.com/mapbox/rasterio/blob/master/docs/cli.rst#rasterize) is new in 0.18

	$ rio rasterize output.tif --res 0.0167 < input.geojson

#### Sample values of a dataset

[rio-sample](https://github.com/mapbox/rasterio/blob/master/docs/cli.rst#sample) is new in 0.18

	$ cat << EOF | rio sample input.tif
	> [220649.99999832606, 2719199.999999095]
	> EOF

(Lots of other operations TODO)

Coordinate transforms
---

[Transform](
https://github.com/mapbox/rasterio/blob/master/docs/cli.rst#transform) long/lat to other CRS

	$ rio transform "[-78.0, 23.0]" --dst_crs EPSG:32618 --precision 2

Transform many pairs of long/lat

	$ cat << EOF | rio transform --dst_crs EPSG:32618 --precision 2
	> [-78.0, 23.0]
	> [-79.0, 24.0]
	> EOF

Commit message:

Add rio-edit-info example

README.md, after:

Fiona-Rasterio-Shapely Cheat Sheet
==================================

A cheat sheet for Fiona/Rasterio/Shapely command-line geodata tools, with apologies to [@dwtkns](https://github.com/dwtkns/gdal-cheat-sheet). Suggestions welcome!

See https://github.com/Toblerity/Fiona/blob/master/docs/cli.rst or `fio --help` and 
https://github.com/mapbox/rasterio/blob/master/docs/cli.rst or `rio --help` for more about Fiona and Rasterio commands.

Vector operations
---

#### Get Fiona version

New in 1.4.3

	fio --version

#### Enumerate format drivers

New in 1.4.3

	fio env --formats

#### Get vector information

	fio info input.shp

#### Print vector format

	fio info input.shp --format

#### Print vector extent

	fio info input.shp --bounds

#### Print vector coordinate reference system

	fio info input.shp --crs
	
#### Print count of features

	fio info input.shp --count

#### Convert vectors to GeoJSON

With coordinate reference system transformation and rounding of numbers to a constant precision.

	fio cat input.shp --dst_crs EPSG:4326 \
	| fio collect --precision 6 > output.json

#### Convert between vector formats

	fio cat input.shp | fio load --format Shapefile output.shp

#### Print count of features with attributes matching a given pattern

Using grep.

	fio cat input.shp | grep -c "pattern"

Using [jq](http://stedolan.github.io/jq/).

	fio cat input.shp | jq '.properties.my_prop=="pattern"' | grep -c "true"

#### Select features by long/lat bounding box

	fio cat input.shp --bbox "$WEST,$SOUTH,$EAST,$NORTH"

#### Select features by bounds of another dataset

	$ fio cat input.shp --bbox "`fio info other.shp --bounds | tr ' ' ','`"

#### Reproject vector

	fio cat input.shp --dst_crs EPSG:4326 \
	| fio load --format Shapefile --dst_crs EPSG:4326 output.shp
	
#### Merge features in a vector file by attribute ("dissolve")

  	TODO

#### Merge vector files

  	fio cat *.shp | fio load --format Shapefile merged.shp

#### Merge vector files (to GeoJSON)

  	fio cat *.shp | fio collect > merged.json

#### Filter a vector file

Using jq for filtering and 
[geojsonio-cli](https://github.com/mapbox/geojsonio-cli) for display of results.

	fio cat input.shp \
	| jq 'select(.id=="10")' -c \
	| fio collect \
	| geojsonio

#### Filter a vector file in parallel

Using GNU Parallel

	fio cat input.shp \
	| parallel --pipe "jq -c 'select(.id==\"10\")'" \
	| fio collect \
	| geojsonio

#### Subset & filter all shapefiles in a directory

  	TODO

Raster operations
---

#### Get Rasterio version

New in 0.15

	rio --version

#### Enumerate format drivers

New in 0.15

	rio env --formats

#### Get raster information

As JSON – no more scraping the output of gdalinfo!

	rio info input.tif

#### Print raster format (not JSON)

	rio info input.tif --format

#### Print raster extent

	rio info input.tif --bounds

#### Print raster coordinate reference system

	rio info input.tif --crs
	
#### Print count of raster bands

	rio info input.tif --count

#### Get raster extent as GeoJSON

And pipe to geojsonio-cli:

	rio bounds input.tif | geojsonio

#### Concatenate or stack datasets together

New in 0.15.

	rio stack r.tif g.tif b.tif -o rgb.tif

#### Extract vectors from raster band as GeoJSON

	rio shapes input.tif --bidx 1 > output.json

#### Extract data/nodata vectors from raster as GeoJSON

	rio shapes input.tif --mask > output.json
	
#### Burn vector into raster

[rio-rasterize](https://github.com/mapbox/rasterio/blob/master/docs/cli.rst#rasterize) is new in 0.18

	$ rio rasterize output.tif --res 0.0167 < input.geojson

#### Sample values of a dataset

[rio-sample](https://github.com/mapbox/rasterio/blob/master/docs/cli.rst#sample) is new in 0.18.

```bash
$ cat << EOF | rio sample input.tif
> [220649.99999832606, 2719199.999999095]
> EOF
```

#### Copy georeferencing, tags, and nodata attribute from one dataset to another

[rio-edit-info](https://github.com/mapbox/rasterio/blob/master/docs/cli.rst#edit-info) is new in 0.24.

```bash
$ rio edit-info unreferenced.jpg --like referenced.tif --all
```

(Lots of other operations TODO)

Coordinate transforms
---

[Transform](
https://github.com/mapbox/rasterio/blob/master/docs/cli.rst#transform) long/lat to other CRS

	$ rio transform "[-78.0, 23.0]" --dst_crs EPSG:32618 --precision 2

Transform many pairs of long/lat

	$ cat << EOF | rio transform --dst_crs EPSG:32618 --precision 2
	> [-78.0, 23.0]
	> [-79.0, 24.0]
	> EOF
